hey everyone how's it going laszlo
Montgomery here with all the recent
intrigue and rumors going on with the
case of former chong ching party boss
and one-time contender for the Standing
Committee mr. Bosch Eli I thought what
the heck let's look at his dad this week
if no boy oh boy there wouldn't have
been any Bush Eli and boy oh boy it was
one of the many giants in party history
so everyone has heard more than their
share about bashe lie this past month or
so and his exploits in the city of
Chongqing let's sort of relive Chinese
history again looking at the years his
father we bawd lived this was from 1908
to 2007 that's a long life 98 years in
fact he was only a month shy making it
to double nine boy was one of China's
Eight Immortals as they were called this
was sort of a play on the ancient Taoist
deities so popular in Chinese culture
they were called the bottom in law the
eight elders also called the Palo these
were the most preeminent party leaders
in China during the time of dung
Xiaoping after he made his last and
final come back in 1977 and our subject
today boy he bought he was the last of
them to pass from this earth leaving us
in early two thousand seven I think only
one Lee survived for but not by much he
wasn't one of the Eight Immortals
however but maybe he should have been so
with ball yi was passing in 2007 that
was pretty much the final living link to
those earliest days the CCP of the eight
elders ball was considered one of the
four principal hardliners who although
he was an ally of them shout paying also
tried to keep some of the reforms from
moving too fast and this is especially
true of the political reforms and boy
you ball on the other hardliners all
back down when it came to calling in the
tanks when the Tiananmen incident
happened in june nineteen eighty nine in
zooming out and looking at boy was long
and historic life from afar
he fits very nicely into the classic
mold of old comrade of matzah dome from
the 1920s the earliest possible days he
participates in the final stages the
long march he's in the upper rungs of
the PRC government from day one
navigates all the political
crocodile-infested waters of jang nan
high and survives the upheavals only to
suffer a most horrible degrading and
inhumane fate during the Cultural
Revolution years and then he makes a
comeback after the upheaval that
followed in October 76 when the gang of
four were arrested then this cleared the
way for dung shell pings historic return
and it was boy oh boy along with these
other elders and their proxies and
protégées who were the movers and
shakers behind the rough but ultimately
successful road China took in the 80's
and 90's boy oh boy wasn't the only one
who suffered this similar agony and then
ecstasy I think if you look at all eight
of these party elders of the 80s and
early 90s they all didn't fare too well
during the Cultural Revolution so in
looking at mr. boy he bought today let's
not only see what role he played in the
PRC but also how his life and career
sort of was typical a lot of these guys
hyung jun cha Eun dong Xiao ping yang
zhang kun li shiiin yen you know all
those guys boy he ball came from shaanxi
coal country heavy industry and
hardscrabble living he was born a
hundred kilometers north of the
provincial capital of tiger on februari
17th 1908 a ching dynasty Death Watch
was still going on and they still had
three more years to go when boy was for
his mother gave birth to his younger
brother who or waffle e recalled later
on became a victim of infanticide so
poor was his family that an extra mouth
to feed was out of the question and they
had to do the unthinkable he joined the
party at age 7
teen in 1925 and carried out party work
up in his home turf of tiger and this
meant he was always dodging the kmt
police but this was commonplace
everywhere these ccp cells operated from
shaanxi boy oh boy was sent to Tian Jing
to carry out organizational work for the
party in 1931 he was captured and thrown
into prison along with another five
dozen other communists to save their own
skin and to live to fight another day
they signed papers that essentially you
know bro call their ties with the CCP he
did what he had to do to get out of jail
and then he went back to doing his party
work now this brief stint and a kmt
prison is going to come back to haunt
boy oh boy Jung Ching dredged up this
incident during the Cultural Revolution
to prove boy he ball was a renegade and
we'll see or ends up during the Cultural
Revolution eating bitterness for a
decade and a half The Legend of Boggy
boy tells of a band of guerillas he put
together known as the dare to die or the
more sensational sounding shaanxi
Suicide Squad this was during the war of
resistance against Japan foreign during
world war two the Japanese were all over
shaanxi because that place is Cole and
bauxite heaven and all this business of
invading and occupying China was about
securing natural resources balls troops
fought against them and did their best
to contribute to the demise of Japanese
army he also played a key role in the
integration of the later strongly anti
PLA warlord yen she shuns 200,000 troops
into the Red Army after the forces of
the CCP prevailed in the civil war
against the Nationalists boy oh boy
pretty much carved out his niche in the
new order he became China's first
finance minister from liberation in
nineteen forty nine to nineteen fifty
two and it was in this steering China's
economic ship that boy has made his
place in history pretty much for the
entirety of boss career except when he
was in prison and out of favor boss
portfolio included China's economy from
1954 256 he was vice chairman of the
State Planning Commission and from 56 to
66 he was chairman of the state economic
commission and also served as one of the
Vice premiers he was a conservative
planner but open to new ideas his
careful stewardship of the economy along
with genuine was cast aside in 1958 when
Mao launched the Great Leap Forward you
see ball was typical of many economic
planners but he was chairman of the
state economic commission during the
Great Leap ball knew this whole program
was an utter and complete sham but mild
Saddam fully expected bought to handle
these things for all these unrealistic
targets everything and bought new Mao
was wrong so did Li phu Trong the guy in
charge of the State Planning Commission
those two were too serious and
conservative planners who knew what had
to be done to keep China on the right
track but they were also human beings
who loved life no doubts for them to
dare to speak up and tell chairman mao
he was nuts it would have meant their
death I would have to mention again what
happened to poor ponga why when he said
something negative about the Chairman's
loony policies in the end all boy he
ball could do was keep telling all his
subordinates to do their best fulfill
targets he and Lee footin put in place
there's an old story from the Great Leap
Forward you see boy oh boy was miles
long time swimming partner Moll was an
avid swimmer so he and boy he ball one
day doing their laps and they stopped
for a while and chat in the pool and my
OS boy so what about the prospects for
iron and steel production you know this
was the yardstick that mall used to
measure the success of the greatly well
ball was caught off guard and didn't
have any numbers to offer the Chairman
so he muttered you know well
you know double back to the other end of
the pool and the next day Mao was happy
to announce that iron and steel
production the next year would double
well just a story who knows boy boy may
have been miles swimming partner and
loyal supporter for all these years but
that didn't inoculate him from the
horrors that awaited him when the
Cultural Revolution began boys nightmare
began in February 9th 1967 the when wat
Dhaka Ming was at a full boil the
so-called Godfather of the Cultural
Revolution Khan shown did his little
behind-the-scenes manipulation and
arranged a massive rally at Beijing's
workers Stadium to hold a struggle
session against ba ba face the crowd
with this heavy iron plaque around his
neck listing all his various trumped-up
charges against him you know this is how
they did it back then they hung this
plaque around your neck listing your
crimes and maybe for good measure they
put a dunce hat on your head when he
tried to speak to the crowd the Red
Guards just jumped him grabbed him
violently by the hair and threw him down
to the ground and started wailing on him
and forcing his you know head to the
ground and screaming at him kicking him
telling him to shut up and they dragged
him to the back of the stage but boy oh
boy was defined the Red Guards saw this
cat wasn't gonna go easy when Ball
rushed to the microphone and said
comrades I am NOT a traitor I am a
member of the Communist Party you know
that was it he was attacked and grabbed
by the hair again and a whole litany of
accusations were made against them you
you name it capitalist woman Don spy
whatever abuses they could hurl they did
I'm sure you've all seen this in the
movies maybe the killing fields or you
know some other Hollywood movie or even
these old black and white movies shot
and China during the Cultural Revolution
you know one guy just getting that you
know what kicked out of them a dozen
screaming angry people and a lather just
screeching and screaming you know what
can you do in a situation like that you
take it like a man and
do your best to survive or you surrender
to them and die boy oh boy was a fighter
he wasn't gonna give up never did you
see they were dredging up this whole
incident from 1931 when he had been
captured and imprisoned by the kmt
police for his communist organizing
activities in 10g rather than confess
and face the inevitable boy oh boy
maintained as valiantly as he could that
every step he had taken since he had
left that KMT prison had been carried
out in accordance with the directives of
the party central committee and he cried
out that Chairman Mao knew this well
this initial struggle session turned out
to be a whole chaotic disaster and
nothing went according to the Red Guards
plan they had to end it right away
hardly five minutes after it started boy
he ball wasn't going to be a pushover
like some of the other party elites who
were resigned to their fate and didn't
show any defiance the following month
ball was sent to a Beijing prison they
heaped any and every charge on him a
backbone general of the Leo shell chi
dung Xiaoping black headquarters a core
element of the Leo Xiao Qi renegade
cleek a big trader counter-revolutionary
revisionist element his life was hell
and daily he was subjected to the worst
imaginable horrors that so many of us
have read about that happened to so many
good people during the Cultural
Revolution and even the good work he had
done enlisting the aid of the warlord
yan shi xiong during the war of
resistance against japan that was thrown
in his face too and he was made to pay
dearly for cavorting with the later
rapidly anti-communist yen well like
most all of the targets of the Cultural
Revolution boy he ball was airplane a
kind of torture where the victims arms
are pulled back you know behind their
back and Ratchet it up so that the
shoulders essentially are dislocated and
once head is simultaneously shoved down
so that the combination of this and
having one's arms pulled up out of their
sockets as you can imagine is horribly
painful and all the while is this was
happening as tormenters
be screaming at him and pulling his hair
and kicking him well you know this was
the Cultural Revolution this craziness
and insanity was normal stuff in his
prison cell he wrote down his thoughts
on scraps of newspaper this was in
August of 1967 China's and total chaos
bawd wrote quote after yesterday's
beating my stomach illness flared up
again last night the pain was unbearable
I was unable to sleep for even 15
minutes this afternoon the pain got
worse in particular my wrists and my
arms are in pain my emotions are now
entirely limited and I can no longer
hold a pen steady how can I write a
confession or is 59 years old when all
this is going down during a struggle
session one day he tried to reason with
his tormenters and speak the truth and
he was violently dealt with and he
famously wrote quote me and my big mouth
these struggle sessions went on for days
it was a most horrific form of mental
and physical torture it's not like he
was just some guy him he was a vice
premier he was Mouse swimming partner
for all those years well I guess if it
hadn't been because of that brief spell
and a KMT prison was 60 others boys boys
main tormenters John Chiang and Kang
sheung they would have found something
else to attack him for but this was his
main crime this was the red meat that
the leftists went after to destroy boy
oh boy this went on and on seemingly
forever I guess it must have felt too
boy when he was made to confess to his
crimes whatever they were bought refused
he said this this was these raw false
accusations and well you know he acted
like a hero he was a hero he was pushing
60 years old and had already suffered
the kind of abuse that some men buckled
under and confessed to anything just so
that the pain and screaming would stop
but boy he ball wouldn't do it he was
thrown back in his prison and forced to
write a confession and for good measure
the Red Guards prohibited him from
sleeping until he provided them with the
confession he refused he said in his
desk and when he would steal a quick
catnap by putting his head down on the
desk they took the desk away but they
left a bench inside his prison cell but
that too was taken away when he used
that to rest on well in short boy he
ball was defiant and for this he was
beaten within an inch of his life but he
wouldn't confess his body was broken his
mind was tortured but khong chun he
couldn't get what he wanted to spite the
thugs from Kong's goon squad just
whacking the heck out of boy they tried
starving him depriving him of sleep of
water nothing would get this brave man
to give in to their outrageous demands
well he had been tortured so badly he
could hardly use his arms or his hands
for anything when his meager daily meal
would come he couldn't even hold
chopsticks and had to eat what little
they gave him off the ground like a like
a starving beggar on the street trying
to you know scoop up scraps of garbage
but boy he bought he hung in there maybe
it was his determination to survive and
one day get justice for what had
happened to him he aged a hundred years
during this time his body was broken but
not his spirit in a letter ball was
allowed to write to his family in that
terrible August of 1967 he wrote quote
I've been away from you for eight months
already how are you all doing really I
have no knowledge whatsoever of your
living conditions and such I'm very
sorry that because of my sins so much
anguish and misfortune have come to you
he closed his letter by saying to his
family quote I'm not a
counterrevolutionary revisionist and I
am NOT a traitor I must and I will
refute that and make my rebuttal that
however is my own business as for you
you should do only one thing and that is
obey party orders soon after his Red
Guard tormentors let him know his wife
booming had committed suicide to escape
punishment and three of his children
including bossy ly were now in their
hands and would suffer for his crimes
whether his wife committed suicide was
killed nobody knows suffice to say
booming boy you boys wife and the mother
of boss she lied she became another
victim of those ten years of madness
well boy oh boy he spent the rest of the
Cultural Revolution in prison I gave you
a flavor of what he went through like I
said it wasn't just boy oh boy all of
those party elders who were later part
of dumb shell pings reform and
opening-up to the outside world team
they all suffered the same or similar
fates some of them were protected by
joanne lie who did his best to lessen
their pain but what I explained about
boy oh boy panjin yung Cheng kun all
those guys they all suffered and they
suffered as well as their families bosch
Eli was just a teenager when he went
through all this living hell he didn't
have it as bad as his father did but his
life was uprooted and as I said his
mother didn't survive the terror so 15
years of pain and suffering boy oh boy
survived it like I said when thung
xiao-ping came to power he was able to
bring many of these guys back also as
one of the Eight Immortals boy didn't
have any particular executive authority
but he did have a fair amount of
influencing people paid attention to him
boy spent a lot of his time exercising
his passions and calligraphy and chess
ball played a major role in the
dismissal of who you bang from office
we're gonna look at who you bung one of
these days in a separate podcast so I
won't go into the gory details of his
demise but let's just say who yell bong
was more liberal than most and perhaps
was a little too enthusiastic about the
political reforms that were being
bandied about 1986-87 these were the
days of the protests and challenges to
the party by Lee opeenion wang wang and
the brilliant physicist fondly jur who
sadly passed away last friday and tucson
who was considered soft on this trio and
boy he bought and most of the other
party elders were very insistent on
whose dismissal and they got their way
in the end and with the fall of who the
Eight Immortals began to assert
themselves more and some of you may
recall there began a campaign against
so-called bourgeois liberalisation and
it was boy oh boy who played the lead
role in the dismissal of who in his
charge sheet against who yell bong boss
said he had failed to do anything to
prevent the so-called spiritual
pollution opposing only leftist but not
right us and for advocating total
westernization and too much capitalism
boy also charged who your bond with
being sort of a loose cannon saying
things he shouldn't have said publicly
that didn't necessarily gunga donnie
dilution follow the party line so who yo
punk got canned and as we'll see later
on in april nineteen eighty nine he dies
and the upshot of all that of course was
the tiananmen incident on june fourth
1989 at the 13th party congress in 1987
dung retired but i put that word retired
in quotation marks because of course he
retained a great deal of influence not
to mention final say on anything of
importance the deal was if dung retired
so did all the party elders have to
retire and that caused a very big rift
and none of them including boy eball
were willing to go quietly they all felt
they were being unceremoniously pushed
aside or kicked upstairs serving only as
part of the central advisory committee
that had been set up in 1982 and
abolished ten years later in 1992 it was
as part of this august body of elders
that boy ebaugh exercised his continued
influence on the direction of the party
you know therefore china the child's
iyong era began third generation of
leaders was clearing the decks of all
the second generation leaders but not
until these eight immortals began to die
one
by one or become too frail to do
anything did the reforms in China gather
some speed they were almost to a man not
what you call progressive and the push
and pull between them and chelsea on was
fierce Joe like who was only considered
slightly less liberal so it didn't take
long before these hardcore conservatives
led by boy oh boy wang chung and li
sheng yin began to call for jaws head
and of course in May nineteenth nineteen
eighty-nine jaw was unceremoniously
yanked from the top spot after his
ill-fated visit to Tiananmen Square
talked to the protesters after the June
4th kinnaman incident dung Xiaoping had
a friend in boy oh boy boss stance was
clearly with dung the party leadership
in against the protesters well like I
said 1992 the central advisory committee
was shut down but ball continued to be
involved in matters of Finance and
China's economy he may have been
officially retired from government but
as long as they were still alive and can
still speak coherently the living
remaining immortals still had some
degree of influence when he passed away
in 2007 the official statement from the
party was that boy he bought died of an
undisclosed illness and that he was
quote an excellent CCP member a great
communist warrior a great proletarian
revolutionary and a prominent leader in
the party's economic work he was the
last of the Eight Immortals to pass from
the scene and with borz passing it
brought an end to this second generation
of leaders after boy you boys death
something called the nineteen
conversations made the rounds at the top
levels and later on the internet
essentially it was boss finally end of
his life to various leaders who all came
to visit him when he was dying from
cancer in 2005-2006 in these 19
conversations boy gave his thoughts on
so
ilysm Wow the current party situation
corruption and also with the princelings
including his own son and last there was
a very poignant letter that ball was
supposed to have written to who Gene
tall and the entire Central Committee
less than two weeks before he passed it
read quote comrade Jintao and the
Central Committee of the CPC I am soon
coming to the end of my life and there
was one thing I regret I was unable to
see the return of Taiwan and the
unification of the country there are two
things I wish to say the country still
has more than 30 million people in
poverty and corruption in the party is
extremely serious the Communist Party
has responsibility to his son bashe lie
and others such as Xi Jinping and Joe
Xiao chuan he said quote you are the
successors to the older generation you
possess an air of superiority there are
many opinions and criticisms of you in
society some of which are pertinent you
must mingle in society and with the
people accept their examination don't
just live off the capital of your
parents generation well there's some
argument whether these so-called 19
conversations were authentic or not I
don't doubt they're real and having read
them all they seem like something ball
would have said so boy oh boy everybody
father of boss she lie who I believe we
haven't heard the last of well maybe
after the latest news we have I met him
once in Hong Kong he spoke at some
luncheon or other that I attended and
this would have been around 19 93 or 94
when he was mayor of Dalian he was at
the convention center in Wanchai I can
only say he was a dynamic speaker spoke
excellent english seemingly without
notes so well did he speak and then
afterwards he came around and did the
whole you know greet all the people at
the tables thing and I got to shake his
hand and you know hit him up with my
poor Mandarin I always used to say that
was China's future leader I guess I got
that one wrong well that's it I have a
large contingent in town from ningbo and
uh i'm in dallas right now more
specifically irving texas but soon going
back to LA and the bottom line to all
this is that i managed to get this one
out within a reasonable time since the
last Carl crow episode but let me just
assure you this well in advance it looks
like it's going to be another two-week
stretch before I get the next episode
out thanks everyone for all your emails
and kindness you've shown me in
complimenting the China history podcast
keep those good ideas and suggestions
coming and so from Irving Texas this is
laszlo Montgomery hoping against hope
we'll see you next week for another
exciting episode of the China history
podcast